+++
title = "CCC / 29C3"
author = "Victor"
date = "2012-12-30"
tags = ["events", "hacking", "security", "ccc"]
category = "blog"
+++

## Description

> "The 29th Chaos Communication Congress (29C3) is an annual four-day conference on technology, society and utopia. The Congress offers lectures and workshops on a multitude of topics including (but not limited to) information technology and generally a critical-creative attitude towards technology and the discussion about the effects of technological advances on society.
> 
> For 29 years, the congress has been organized by the community and appreciates all kinds of participation. You are encouraged to contribute by volunteering, setting up and hosting hands-on events with the other components of your assembly or presenting your own projects to fellow hackers." (Source <a class="https" href="https://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/wiki/Main_Page">official page</a>)


## Schedule

Have a look at the <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/">official Fahrplan</a>.

## Day 1

Besides the fact that my trip to Hamburg was a short one (I got there by some lift), the `check-in` process was a little bit... slow! The line was about 400m but that shouldn't be the first surprise I should experience on that day. Before getting my ticket, I got schocked: `Only cash payment!` C'mon! How comes there is no card payment on such a big congress? Anyway, I had to go back to the railway station and withdraw some money. I went back and there it is: My 2nd surprise. Some ugly black-hat (yeah...he was black-hat w000t!) guy won't let me in!
</p>

> He: "You should stand in the line! Here's no entry!"
> Me: "But I was aleady there. I had to get some money for my ticket."
> He: "Yeah, sure!" 

[bla bla ...] Damn idiot!

Well finally I got in and I've visited the <strong>first talk</strong> on Day #1: <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5221.en.html">`Cyberpeace statt Cyberwar`</a> (Cyberpeace beside Cyberwar). Nothing interesting to mention about. I mean we all know there is <em>cyberwar</em> out there, carryied out by big nations like the USA, Russia, Iran and also Germany. I know we should make peace and not war. But there was nothing special related to the talk. Well actually there is sth to mention: I lost my cap in Hall 6.

The <strong>2nd talk</strong> was about <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5167.en.html">Setting mobile phones free</a>. There was some dutch <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/speakers/3860.en.html">guy</a> who spoke about some project in Netherlands called <a class="https" href="https://limesco.org/wordpress/">Limesco</a>. A really interesting talk about seeting your own mobile network, legal concerning, pricing modells and all the benefits this should bring to us (hackers).

After some short break I went to the <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5095.en.html">Privay and the car of the future</a> talk. A really funny and informative one! I really wanted to see the most interesting <strong>talk of the day</strong> <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5400.en.html">Hacking Cisco Phones</a>, but I had to go to the hotel and check in. I heard it was a quite technically talk and I feel sorry I couldn't see it too.

## Day 2

At the beginning of the day I did some sightseeing along with some cool guy from Australia called <em>Rupert</em> (Hi dude, thanks for your company!). I must admit that Hamburg has very cool and beautiful places worth to see.

At the first talk of the day <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5091.en.html">(In)security of hardware-based encryption</a> I had a lot of fun watching Tilo making fun of the SSDs vendors and their `(in)security`. Make sure you watch the PoC <a class="http" href="http://www1.cs.fau.de/sed">videos</a>. I was surprised how easy you can steal/dump data from stolen laptops. I think I should have a closer look at those <strong>evil maid attacks</strong> (especially on encrypted hard drives)

What came next was about to be the best talk I've seen at 29C3. <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5088.en.html">MANY TAMAGOTCHIS WERE HARMED IN THE MAKING OF THIS PRESENTATION</a>! Yeah, indeed! :-) I've had a lot of fun watching listening/watching to Natalie Silvanovich who loves tamagotchis and wanted to RE (Reverse Engineer) them. Since I've never done RE before, it was a good opportunity for me to get introduced to the whole topic. I was very pleased to know which steps have to be done, in order to get useful information from some piece of hardware. And yes: I do feel sorry for the many tamagotchis harmed during the experiments! :-) @Natalie: <strong>I hope you'll finally get your test programm!</strong>

Since I'm very interested in cryptography I HAD to see <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5275.en.html">FactHacks: RSA factorization in the real world</a>. In fact the autors tried to convince us (hackers!) that we should stop using private keys based on RSA. I was surprised how fast such a factorization can be (if you got the proper hardware and the right algos). And by the way: <a class="http" href="http://sagemath.org/">sagemath</a> really rocks! If you have a good understanding of basic maths you should <em>watch</em> the whole presentation. You won't get disappointed! <strong>Lesson of the talk:</strong> Don't try to <a class="http" href="http://crypto.2012.rump.cr.yp.to/87d4905b6d2fbc6ad2389debb73f7035.pdf">FUCK A DUCK!</a> :-D

<a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5219.en.html">How I met your pointer?</a> What?! Ohh.. <em>Hijacking client software for fuzz and profit</em>. Ahhh..Now I see! Well we had a lot of fun! This guy (Carlos :D) was very hilarious and had a really funny presentation (worth watching it!). Besides that he started to throw small pieces of chocolate at us! Well not randomly.. Every time his question got answered correctly! :-D I really liked the story about his wife (interesting slide btw!) and that bacterium analogy. I didn't quite get the point but I think I wasn't the only one.

## Day 3


Not really much to say about this day. I got very disappointed by the first talk <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5205.en.html">Blackhole Exploit Kit Analysis</a>. I don't really know what the lecturer intended to achieve presenting that...crap! Well I should stop criticizing...

The 2nd and my last talk at 29C3 should be a short one since I had to leave suddenly to get my car lift. Mister Wander from the Duisburg University had a talk about <a class="http" href="http://events.ccc.de/congress/2012/Fahrplan/events/5146.en.html">Secure Name Resolution: DNSSec, DNSCurve and Namecoin</a>. I'll have to watch the whole presentation. At least the beginning was very interesting and quite technical.


## Streams

Get the <a class="http" href="http://mirror.fem-net.de/CCC/29C3/mp4-h264-HQ/">streams</a> for offline watching.

## Conclusion

I really had a great time at 29C3! There was enough place to stay at and talk to different people. I've seen great talks and learned a lot (especially about hardware hacking which is somehow foreign to me). Greetings go to: shift and his crew, Rupert, skier, the nullsecurity.net team and all the other people I've talked to.                                       
